# MarvelousMatrices

This is my final project for Linear Algebra that celebrates the capabilities of matrices! The program takes in a matrix from a user and calculates the SVD, QR factorization, inverse, eigenvalues, and eigenvectors when possible. It can also power up a square matrix and represent the matrix as a spectral colormap. It uses the linalg functionalities of the Numpy library.

Submitted Description:
My final project for Linear Algebra is the Marvelous Matrix Manipulator, a Python program that celebrates the capabilities of matrices. The program takes in a matrix of integers from a user and can calculate the SVD, QR factorization, inverse, eigenvalues, or eigenvectors when requested by the user. It can also power up a square matrix and represent the matrix as a spectral colormap. It uses the linalg functionalities of the Numpy library for calculations. For each incomputable operation, the program will give the user a hint as to why their matrix is invalid. For the inverse functionality, the program will remind the user of the Fundamental Theorem of Invertible Matrices if their entered matrix is singular. It also includes a bonus linear algebra joke to conclude the program when the user is satisfied with their matrix exploration. The project is a comprehensive calculator for the operations we have learned over the semester. My favorite part of my project is the visual representation of the matrix as a spectral colormap, as it is exciting to turn math into art. I enjoyed doing this project and it served as a refresher of the necessary properties of matrices for given operations. I plan to use it in the future when working with matrices. (Link to repository: https://github.com/catel22/MarvelousMatrices)
